6/9/26, 6:49 PM Favorite Local Hike: Temescal Canyon Trail, a Quick Guide — Brassy
HIf othmeere iEsa otneH ciiktye hiGkeu itdhea tt oc aLpAtures the Westside and Los Angeles, it’s always and forever, the Temescal Canyon
DHiiskceo. v WerheAnb woue tlive in Westwood, we hiked the Temescal Loop weekly, often inviting friends, families and visitors.
For our most recent wedding anniversary, we played hooky and hiked old, familiar loop! That’s how iconic this place
is - it’s our go-to date spot. We even had our engagement photos taken on the grounds of Temescal Canyon Park —
so it truly has a special place in our hearts.
Hence, I want to share my great love of this hike with others by sharing a few tips and learnings.
Why is Temescal Canyon my favorite, iconic LA hike?
• 3.8 mile loop trail, so no backtrack, great views of the ocean, epic photo Ops, great for active out of town
visitors. Not too long (~2.2 hour hike), not too short. You don’t have to pack lunch.
• Did someone say OCEAN VIEWS? It’s technically in Pacific Palisades, a stone’s throw from Santa Monica - and
off of Sunset Blvd. The elevation gain means it tends to have an ocean breeze at the highest elevant -but be
warned, on hot days, it’s hot!
• Great workout - over 900 foot elevation gain, so you will break a sweat
• Easy walking distance to Downtown Pacific Palisades - easy access to food, restaurants, and on Sunday
mornings their Farmer’s Market, if you want to make a half day activity
• Varied landscape - For LA hikes, it’s pretty few varied landscapes and plants as it starts in the valley (dry more
shaded side) then goes up on the side of the mountain, so you are then walking on the side closest to the ocean
https://www.thebrassy.com/blog/temescal-canyon-hike 2/22

6/9/26, 6:49 PM Favorite Local Hike: Temescal Canyon Trail, a Quick Guide — Brassy
(which has a marine layer). In summary, the microclimates capture make the landscape pretty varied given its
Home Eat Hike Guide to LA
close proximity. Don’t get me wrong, it’s a dry landscape, but lots of trees and shade for an LA hike!
Discover About
• Close to the city - from West LA you can get there in 20-30 minutes depending on traffic. Be an early bird and
you’ll definitely beat beach traffic. So you can do hike, grab breakfast ,and shower all before noon! It’s my
favorite Westside hike :)
https://www.thebrassy.com/blog/temescal-canyon-hike 3/22

6/9/26, 6:49 PM Favorite Local Hike: Temescal Canyon Trail, a Quick Guide — Brassy
Home Eat Hike Guide to LA
Discover About
https://www.thebrassy.com/blog/temescal-canyon-hike 4/22

6/9/26, 6:49 PM Favorite Local Hike: Temescal Canyon Trail, a Quick Guide — Brassy
The Bridge and Creek. Hiking landmarks call this the waterfall, but due to the ongoing drought it’s more like a drip-drip-
Home Eat Hike Guide to LA
drip.
Discover About
Should I take the Loop Trail Counterclockwise or Clockwise?
It depends on personal preference!
We prefer taking the steepest climb earlier on (clockwise), which follows canyon views. When the trail peaks, we
finally see the ocean. Then on our walk back towards the lot (as we loop back), we like seeing the Ocean to our right
as we descend and enjoying what small ocean breezes are blown our way.
I’ve heard many friends prefer a more laid back hike and do the opposite direction (counterclockwise) — taking the
ocean side path first (so the ocean is to their left). The trail ascends more gradually so it feels less strenuous. Then
they take the steepest part on the way down, which feels easier cardio-wise (careful for your knees and joints :) ).
For more details on how to navigate the trail clockwise vs counterclockwise, checkout AllTrails.
My go to start of Temescal Canyon Trail
What’s it like hiking Temescal Canyon?
https://www.thebrassy.com/blog/temescal-canyon-hike 5/22