6/9/26, 6:50 PM Los Liones Canyon Trail – My Favorite Date Hike in the Santa Monica Mountains - LA Date Ideas
You might have noticed that I've been going on a lot of hikes in the Santa Monica
mountains lately. They've all be great, but each seems to be better than the last. At a
friend’s recommendation, I did the Los Liones Canyon hike and I think it’s the best
one I've done so far!
Los Liones Canyon is ideal because it has lush greenery and more shade than most
other local trails, it offers some spectacular views, and it’s relatively close to
civilization. It is an up-and-back trail, so you can stop and turn around any time. Oh,
and parking is plentiful and FREE!
Continue to Map
Earth View 360 Open
What to Bring
This hike can be as long or as short as you want it to be, so prepare accordingly. I
would say the ideal hike is to Parker Mesa Overlook, which is 3.75 miles each way. If
you do that, it’s about a three-hour or so hike. Anyone in good health should be
able to do it, although you will work up a good sweat and be tired at the end! The
trail is an easy dirt trail with no boulders to go over.
Bring your standard hiking gear: hiking boots or sneakers, a good hat, sunscreen,
lots of water, and snacks.
Interestingly, we found that the temperature varied wildly along the trail on the
overcast day that we went. At the base, it was pretty warm, while at the top, it was
cold and misty. Other times when I've gone, it's been cool and foggy at the bottom
and sunny and hot at the top! Dress in layers and be prepared for a wide range of
temperatures.
For a more complete list of what to bring, check out my list at TheFrugalNoodle.com:
My No-Nonsense Day Hike Checklist
Note that dogs are not allowed on this trail.
https://www.ladateideas.com/los-liones-canyon-trail/ 2/18

6/9/26, 6:50 PM Los Liones Canyon Trail – My Favorite Date Hike in the Santa Monica Mountains - LA Date Ideas
Getting There and Parking
It’s really easy to get to Los Liones Canyon. Take PCH and head inland on Sunset Blvd.
for a short distance. Turn left on Los Liones and keep going until you start seeing cars
parked on the side of the road. There are also a few parking lots along the way on the
right side of the road. You can park in any of these, or on the street. There is no
charge! The parking situation here is more convenient than any other trail I’ve
been to in the area!
But, I recommend looking at a map and memorizing the (simple) directions before
you depart for this hike. Cell phone reception is poor in the canyon. The GPS on
my phone worked, but I was not able to do any searches due to lack of data
reception, so I would not have been able to Google the address of the trailhead if I
had needed to.
Continue to Map
Earth View 360 Open
There is a pleasant pathway from the parking lots to the trailhead. Along the way,
there is a small building with two restrooms… really convenient if you’ve made a long
drive to get here and don’t want to make a pit stop on the trail itself (which has no
restrooms).
https://www.ladateideas.com/los-liones-canyon-trail/ 3/18