, 6 Best Hikes in Los Angeles (West Side Edition)
 TAC TAC T SEARCH
 AT WA DW AT DAY
6 BEST HIKES IN LOS
ANGELES (WEST SIDE
EDITION)
WANDER · JUNE 14, 2022
BEST HIKES IN LOS ANGELES
One of our favorite things to do, and one of the things
we love most about living in Los Angeles, is hiking.
There are no shortage of options here, everything from
hikes you can do in 90 minutes to hikes you can spend
all day on, hikes that are flat and easy to hikes that are
intense and challenging, ones with epic views and ones
that take you to see waterfalls. We are truly so
fortunate to have so many beautiful hikes so accessible
to us here in. And it’s something we definitely don’t
By using this website, you agree to our use of cookies. We use cookies to provide you with a great experience and to help our website run effectively. OK
 1/8

, 6 Best Hikes in Los Angeles (West Side Edition)
take for granted. We try to hike a couple of times a
week, usually at one of the spots I’m including on this
list below. And since I always seem to get asked
questions about what hikes to do in LA, especially here
on the west side, I thought it was high time I start a list
to coral all the info in one handy dandy spot.
I’ve tried to include a bit of variety as far as level of
ease and location, but really these are just the best of
the hikes we do the most frequently, mostly because
they’re some of the easiest for us to get to here on the
west side (they take us 30-45 minutes to get to from
Venice or Santa Monica, depending on time of day and
traffic). But the epic views of most of them don’t hurt
either!
NOTE: I will be sure to update this list any time we discover
a new and noteworthy hike. Also, I did include one hike in
Malibu but there’s actually so many good hikes there that we
love that I honestly feel like it needs it’s own separate hiking
guide so expect that at some point (hopefully sooner rather
than later ha!).
WESTRIDGE IN MANDEVILLE CANYON
THINGS TO NOTE
-Medium-difficult level (I think it’s harder going +
easier coming back)
-Full sun
-Parking lot + plenty of street parking (both free)
-No fee to enter
-Nice wide trail, not overly packed (even on weekends)
-Restrooms are available at the summit
-More info can be found here
Ok, I think this may be my favorite hike. I feel like it is
kind of under-the-radar (and I may or may not regret
sharing about it), but it’s so good. The trail is nice and
By using this website, you agree to our use of cookies. We use cookies to provide you with a great experience anwd tiod heelp, oiutr wnebesvitee rrun f eeffeecltisve lcy.rowded, even on weekends
 2/8

, 6 Best Hikes in Los Angeles (West Side Edition)
(honestly sometimes it feels like we’re two of only a
LOS LIONES IN THE PALISADES
handful of people on the trail) and it’s definitely a good
workout (plus there are additional trails that can make
-Medium level, gets harder the further up you go
it even harder if you want it to be).
-Partially shaded on the bottom, full sun up top
The full thing takes about 3-3 1/2 hours round trip, with
-Plenty of parking + it’s free the half way point being a good spot for a picnic
(there’s actually tables, water fountains and even
-No fee to enter
bathrooms), but you definitely don’t need to do the full
thing (if we’re short on time we only do about half of
-Gets especially busy on the weekends, and even more
it). Also, lots of great views of all parts of LA (from
so in summer, but does thin out as you get higher up
ocean to downtown to the valley) throughout the hike,
(basically past the lookout point)
too.
-More info can be found here
One of the first hikes I ever did in LA, and probably
one of my favorites. The views are amazing, it’s
challenging enough but not too difficult (until you get
further up), and it’s definitely a good hike for when you
want to get something in but don’t have a ton of time
(just hike to the lookout point).
MURPHY’S RANCH IN THE PALISADES
THINGS TO NOTE
-Medium level
-Mix of sun and shade
-Street parking (free)
-No fee to enter
By using this website, you agree to our use of cookies. We use cookies to provide you with a great experience and to help our website run effectively.
TUNA CANYON IN TOPANGA
 3/8

, 6 Best Hikes in Los Angeles (West Side Edition)
THINGS TO NOTE -More info can be found here
-Medium-difficult level (there’s some pretty flat, easy This is a bit of an interesting hike, or should I say, the
parts, and then there are some really steep challenging land this hike is on has a bit of an ugly, dark history. It’s
parts) a decent hike, easy-medium level, relatively quiet, not
overly long, there’s a really steep set of stairs if you
-Full sun
want to kick it up a notch. But here’s the one
cool/creepy thing to note about this hike- there are
-Parking is on the side of the road, can be a bit tight
several abandoned structures remaining from the
and tricky (it is a narrow dirt road, after all)
homestead that was once on this land that can be
-No fee to enter spotted while you’re hiking.
-More info can be found here And I say it’s cool/creepy because I know a lot of
people think it’s cool, but I definitely get a creepy vibe
here, probably because of the dark history of what this
The views of the coast are unmatched on this hike, but
place once was (read more about that here). However,
you definitely have to work a bit for them. The road to
from a purely hiking stand point, it’s a decent enough
the trail head gets narrow and steep (and harrowing, at
one, and especially good for during the week as it’s a bit
least to me), so it’s definitely a trek, but I’m telling you,
easier and shorter.
it’s worth it. Another reason it’s worth it- that same
trek is what keeps this trail from getting too packed
and crazy, even on weekends. Once you’re there, there
are a few trails you can take, some being easier than
others, but all of which you’ll get decent views up and
down the coast.
ESCONDIDO FALLS IN MALIBU
THINGS TO NOTE
By using this website, you agree to our use of cookies. We use cookies to provide you with a great experience an-dE toa hseylp oluer vweeblsite run effectively.
 4/8

, 6 Best Hikes in Los Angeles (West Side Edition)
-Mix of sun and shade
-Parking lot + plenty of street parking (parking lot is
paid, street is free)
-No fee to enter
-Gets especially busy on the weekends, and even more
so in summer
-More info can be found here
This hike is super easy and, as the name implies, takes
you to a water fall (during rainy season), which is kind
of cool. It’s not overly long and rather easy, definitely a
good thing to do as part of spending the day in Malibu,
but be warned, it does get really busy, especially on the
weekends.
TEMESCAL CANYON IN THE PALISADES
THINGS TO NOTE
-Medium-difficult level (I think it’s harder going +
easier coming back)
-Full sun
-Parking lot (paid) + street parking (free)
-No fee to enter
-Gets especially busy on the weekends
-Restrooms available
-More info can be found here
Super convenient, lots of trails, good views, easy to get
to, definitely lots to love about this hiking area! I tends
to get a little busy for my taste (I feel like it’s
sometimes the Runyon of the west side haha), so it’s
not always my first choice for hiking, and I most
By using this website, you agree to our use of cookies. We use cookies to provide you with a great experience and to help our website run effectively.
definitely avoid it on weekends, but it’s a great mid-
 5/8