, The Best Hiking Trails Near Westwood Los Angeles | Shilian Group
The Best Hiking Trails

Near Westwood Los
Angeles
Payman Shilian pm
Consider hiking if you’re looking for a great way to get out and explore nature. Many
excellent hiking trails near Westwood, Los Angeles, offer something for everyone.
Whether looking for a challenging hike or a stroll through the woods, you can find
what you’re looking for in the Westwood area of Los Angeles. The best part is that
there is no shortage of trails to choose from, so you can find the perfect one for your
needs. Here is a list of some of the more popular trails near Westwood, Los Angeles.
The Temescal Canyon hiking trail is an excellent option for those looking for a
challenging hike. This trail offers beautiful views of the canyon and the Pacific Ocean,
sure to test your fitness level. Although it can be strenuous, the walk is well worth it.
The Temescal Canyon trailhead is at the end of Temescal Gateway Park Road in
Pacific Palisades. The park entrance fee is $6 per vehicle, so bring cash. The hike
begins by ascending wooden stairs, so it’s essential to be prepared for a workout right
from the start. Next, the trail winds through the canyon, making numerous steep
climbs and descents. At just over six miles long, this hike is not for the faint of heart.
However, those who finish the trek will be rewarded with stunning ocean and canyon
views.
Being a little farther into the city of Altadena, this trail is more of a drive but worth the
trip. You get a beautiful view of the city during your travels, and the trail is also well-
kept and attractive. Overlooking the Mountain area, this trail is very popular among the
locals for obvious reasons, easy parking, so much greenery, and is a nice challenging
hike. Eaton Canyon has many things to do nearby after you finish your trek; food
trucks are not too far away from the park. I love stopping by for a smoothie and a nice
bite to eat at the nearby plazas after a long hike. And the highlight of the entire trail
has to be the beautiful waterfall at the end of the journey.
Topanga Canyon is a great place to hike with friends and has incredible coast views.
Parking is free, a huge plus, and it has easy access to the park once you are parked.
Make sure to bring plenty of water as the trail does not offer the most shade
compared to other trails. There are several photo-worthy vista points along the route
as well.
Los Leones trail is around a 4.4-mile hike if you go up to the trail’s end. If you stop at
the first scenic photo opportunity, it is about a 3-mile walk. It is a shorter hike, and the
path is narrower than the others; however, it also includes a breathtaking view of the
ocean and is located close to several local shops for food afterward and close to
 2/5